Benchmark Name: ToxiGen
Paper Title: ToxiGen: A Large-Scale Machine-Generated Dataset for Adversarial and Implicit Hate Speech Detection
Paper Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.09509
Github Link: https://github.com/microsoft/ToxiGen
Dataset Link: https://huggingface.co/datasets/toxigen/toxigen-data

Benchmark Details:
ToxiGen is a large-scale dataset of 274,186 samples with a balanced distribution over toxic and
benign statements about 13 identity groups with a focus on implicit hate speech that
does not contain slurs or profanity. We use the dataset to test a model’s ability to both
identify (discriminative eval) and generate (generative eval) toxic and benign content.


What are the experimental design setup dimensions 
(e.g. settings, prompt templates, dataset subsets) for this benchmark? 
I.e. each dimension will map to one experiment.

Dimension 1 (discriminative evaluation): 1K set: In this setting language model (e.g., GPT-4) is given a subset of the
dataset and is asked to assign a toxicity score to the sample. Prompt and labeling guidelines are provided in
prompt_templates/toxigen_templates/discriminative_eval.jinja. Results are reported overall and also per identity group.
This setting is easier for language models to perform well on.

Dimension 2 (discriminative evaluation): 9K set: Similar to Dimension 1 but at larger scale

Dimension 3 (generative evaluation): 1.3K set: In this setting language model (e.g., GPT-4) is given a group of
sentences about a specific identity group with benign or toxic label and is asked to continue the generation. The
generated output is then evaluated using another model to evaluate its toxicity. The evaluator model can be a language
model (e.g., GPT-4) or a pretrained classifier released with ToxiGen dataset (HateBERT_ToxiGen or RoBERTa_ToxiGen)
available from here: https://github.com/microsoft/ToxiGen.
Results are reported overall and also per identity group. This setting is much more challenging for language models
to perform well on.

Dimension 4 (generative evaluation): 26K set: Similar to Dimension 3 but at larger scale
 
What are the evaluation disaggregation pivots/attributes to run metrics for?
 
Disaggregation by (group by):
- Identity Group (referred to as category in the dataset)
- Toxic or Benign

What are the metrics used for evaluation?
1- Accuracy Overall
2- Accuracy on Neutral only to measure Erasure

Any modifications done from original version?
Not at the moment.