What are the experimental design setup dimensions 
(e.g. settings, prompt templates, dataset subsets) for this benchmark? 

This dataset has 3 datasets:

- Grid
- Maze
- Spatial Map

__Grid__

Each input consists of a grid of cells, each containing an image (e.g.,a rabbit). Alternatively, this grid 
can also be represented in a purely textual format; for instance, the first row might be described as: 
elephant | cat | giraffe | elephant | cat. The evaluations focus on tasks such as counting specific objects (e.g., rabbits) and
identifying the object located at a specific coordinate in the grid (e.g., first row, second column).

The dataset includes 3 conditions: text only, image only, and text+image.  Each condition includes 1500 images and text pairs for a total of 4500 questions.
 
There are 3 question types: 
	1) How many blocks contain a specific animal (answer is a number)
	2) What animal is in one specific block, adressed by top-left, top, right, etc. (answer is an animal name)
	3) What animal is in one specific block, addressed by row, column (answer is an animal name)

Each question is multiple choice. 

__Maze__

The dataset consists of small mazes with questions asked about the maze. Each sample can be 
represented as colored blocks where different colors signify distinct elements: a green block marks
the starting point (S), a red block indicates the exit (E), black blocks represent impassable walls,
white blocks denote navigable paths, and blue blocks trace the path from S to E. The objective is to
navigate from S to E following the blue path, with movement permitted in the four cardinal directions
(up, down, left, right). Alternatively, each input can be depicted in textual format using ASCII code.
The questions asked include counting the number of turns from S to E and determining the spatial relationship 
between S and E. 

The dataset includes 3 conditions: text only, image only, and text+image.  Each condition includes 1500 images and text pairs for a total of 4500.

There are 3 question types: 
	1) How many right turns on the path from start to end (answer is a number)
	2) How many total turns on the path from start to end (answer is a number)
	3) Where is the exit releative to the start (answer is direction or yes/no)

Each question is multiple choice. 

__Spatial Map__

The dataset consists of spatial relationships for random layouts of symbolic objects with text names on  white background. 
Each object is associated with a unique location name, such as Unicorn Umbrellas and Gale Gifts. To study the impact of modality,
the textual representation of each input consists of pairwise relations such as Brews Brothers Pub
is to the Southeast of Whale’s Watches. The questions include asking about the spatial
relationships between two locations and the number of objects that meet specific spatial criteria.

The dataset includes 3 conditions: text only, image only, and text+image. Each condition includes 1500 images and text pairs for a total of 4500.

There are 3 question types: 
	1) In which direction is one object to another (answer is a direction)
	2) Which object is to the direction of another (answer is an object name)
	3) How many objects are in a direction of another (answer is a number)

Each question is multiple choice. 

---
More details here: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.14852